Amazon Relational Database Service

Chapter 9: Amazon Relational Database Service

 

AWS Relational Database Service (RDS) means MySQL instances in the cloud.  To
use it, you need to sign up for the service. Go do it.

 

Amazon RDS, the Use Case

 

You’re saying, “There’s already a database service. Why do I need two?”  You’re
wrong. You should be saying, “There’s already a database service. Why do I need
three?”

 

Here’s three use cases:

 

 + You want somewhere to store a lot of similar data that you can do fast
    queries on. You don’t need the full sophistication of a relational
    database, you don’t much care about the details, you don’t want to mess
    with schemas and joins and normal forms. Put it in. Get it out. You want
    SDB.
 2. You have an existing, LAMP-based service. You’d like to move it to the
    cloud, and give the MySQL server its own node in a multi-machine,
    cloud-based architecture.  You’ll want to be able to scale the server up
    and down in size as demand changes, take database snapshots, and let Amazon
    worry about the tedious stuff, like doing MySQL upgrades, hardening against
    machine failures, and installing servers in racks. You want RDS.
 3. You have a corporate database application built around Postgres, Oracle, or
    (eeeew) Microsoft Access that you don’t have time to mess with. You only
    use it once a month, but then you could use three times as big a machine as
    you have. You want an AMI that’s got your app on that database, which can
    spin up into an instance with a lot of memory, on demand. (Amazon already
    lists lots of AMIs out there with non-MySQL databases to start with, clone,
    and modify.)

 

This chapter’s about #2.

Running the Sample Code

 

There isn’t any.  There.  That was easy.

 

I could write some, but my goal, first time through, is to get the supplied
code to work so you’re not beating your head against a wall.

 

I have a better idea. You write some. Then supply it here.

 

Actually, lots of AWS services aren’t covered in the book. Some of this is
because time is finite. Some of it is because AWS keeps adding new stuff. Here
are more things that we could use example code for:

 

 + Amazon Cloudwatch
 2. Amazon Elastic Map Reduce (EMR)
 3. Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM)
 4. Amazon Import/Export
 5. Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS)

 

Each of these already has its own PHP class in AWSSDKforPHP, so you could write
PHP examples that would fit right in.

 

Yes, you!

 

Come to Hacking Society. Drink beer. Share cool stuff you learned this week.
Write code.

 

Other AWS services don’t yet even have PHP classes. Today, I can list these:

 

 + Amazon Fulfillment Web Services
 2. Amazon Route 53 (DNS)
 3. Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPS)
 4. Amazon Flexible Payments Service (FPS)
 5. Amazon DevPay
 6. Amazon Mechanical Turk
 7. Alexa Web Information Service
 8. Alexa Top Sites

 

If you can, please write examples and provide them to get us over the hump.

 

A community is just the people in it; if no one shows up, there’s no community.
Show up.

Edit this page (if you have permission)–Published by Google Docs–Report Abuse
–Updated automatically every 5 minutes
